AI/ML/NPL Assignment 
29/10/18

(A)  Applied Statistics: 
	(Make use of Pandas, Numpy
	CSV file: stats.csv
Ex 1.    For a given set of values in stats.xls that contains the list of employees, years of experience and their salary 
	write a python script to calculate the 	mean, 	mode and median. 
Ex2.   For the above exercise determine the standard deviation and variance through python scripting
------------------------------------
(B) Natural Language Processing: 
	(Make use of Pandas, NLTK) 
	CSV file: Data.in.csv	

Ex1. Write a python script that reads the data_in.csv from every cell in column labeled as comment and perform sentence tokenization and redirects in to column of 	     data_out.csv. Perform the NE Chunking on these sentences. 
Ex2. Write a python script that reads the data_in.csv from every cell in column labeled as comment and perform word tokenization and redirects in to column of 	             data_out.csv 
Ex3. From an input file data.txt it is required to identify the POS-Tagging and display it on tree structure. 
Ex4. For a given text file exclude the stop words and perform the Stemming & lemmatization and compare the results. --?
Ex5. Create a small dictionary file with required set of words with weightage attached to it with positive and negative numbers. Create a python script that analyzes        the given text file and classify it as negative or positive sentiment. --?

-----------------------------------

(C)  Machine Learning:
	Machine Learning Linear regression assignments 
	Write a python script  
	BEST FIT LINE - Calling SKlearn linear regression 
	Ex 1. Data
	csv file: carMPG.csv

C2 dataset

1. Title: Haberman's Survival Data

2. Sources:
   (a) Donor:   Tjen-Sien Lim (limt@stat.wisc.edu)
   (b) Date:    March 4, 1999

3. Past Usage:
   1. Haberman, S. J. (1976). Generalized Residuals for Log-Linear
      Models, Proceedings of the 9th International Biometrics
      Conference, Boston, pp. 104-122.
   2. Landwehr, J. M., Pregibon, D., and Shoemaker, A. C. (1984),
      Graphical Models for Assessing Logistic Regression Models (with
      discussion), Journal of the American Statistical Association 79:
      61-83.
   3. Lo, W.-D. (1993). Logistic Regression Trees, PhD thesis,
      Department of Statistics, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI.

4. Relevant Information:
   The dataset contains cases from a study that was conducted between
   1958 and 1970 at the University of Chicago's Billings Hospital on
   the survival of patients who had undergone surgery for breast
   cancer.

5. Number of Instances: 306

6. Number of Attributes: 4 (including the class attribute)

7. Attribute Information:
   1. Age of patient at time of operation (numerical)
   2. Patient's year of operation (year - 1900, numerical)
   3. Number of positive axillary nodes detected (numerical)
   4. Survival status (class attribute)
         1 = the patient survived 5 years or longer
         2 = the patient died within 5 year

8. Missing Attribute Values: None


(C)  Machine Learning:   Machine Learning spoc: snehalatha.nagamangala@wipro.com   TT-Architect Academy  Machine Learning Linear regression assignments  
Write a python script  BEST FIT LINE - Calling SKlearn linear regression 

Ex 1. Data: 
1. Download the MPG data file from UCI Machine Learning repository 
https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/machine-learningdatabases/auto-mpg/  

2. Identify target variable and independent variable. 
3. Prepare the data file Univariate Regression 
c	Ex 2. Import relevant python libraries and sklearn linear_model  
c	Ex 3. Split the file into train [80%] and test [20%] data 
c	Ex 4. Apply linear regression 
c	Ex 5. Train the model using the training sets  
c	Ex 6. Display the coefficients coef, intercept and residues 
c	Ex 7. Predict using test data  
c	Ex 8. Perform Accuracy check using the R Square 
	Ex 9. Display using scatter plot the data points and the best fit line 
------------------
Multi-variate Regression :
Repeat the above steps  BEST FIT LINE - Cost function using un-constrained method - Gradient descent 
	Ex 1. Use the downloaded data 
	Ex 2. Convert this data to array ?
	Ex 3. Define the learning rate and no. of iterations as 0.0001 and 1000 respectively along with y-intercept and slope ?
	Ex 4. Create the functions to get the BEST FIT line 
		1. Compute error for the line given the points --?
		2. Step gradient function 
		3. Gradient descent 
	Ex 5. Display using scatter plot the data points and the best fit line 
	Ex 6. Display the Gradient and y-intercept value in the form y = mx+c  ---? 
	Ex 7. Find the BEST FIT line i.e., m and c of y=mx+c with least error using trial and error method i.e., modify learning rate or iterations or both --?

Machine Learning KNN assignments  :
	Ex 1. Data: 
		1. Download the census data file from UCI Machine Learning repository 
		   http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/machine-learningdatabases/haberman/  
		2. Identify target variable and independent variable. 
		3. Prepare the data file 
	Ex 2. Import relevant python libraries and sklearn KNN model  
	Ex 3. Split the file into train [80%] and test [20%] data 
	Ex 4.  Apply KNN algorithm 
	Ex 5. Train the model using the training set 
	Ex 6. Predict using test data  
	Ex 8. Perform Accuracy check   
